At this point, we understood what is Devsecops as well as some of the fancy terms such as defence in
depth and shift left.
In this video, let's explore some of that Devsecops workflow.
A couple of things to keep in mind.
Tooling will change based on the application.
For example, you need different tools to scan different codes for different languages, and container
security is different than ESI two security.
So if you are going for a container security related job, you need to study up Kubernetes security
separate than this Devsecops lecture.
Some of the popular workflows we are going to cover in this lecture are infrastructure as code workflow
SC two applications workflow and Kubernetes Applications Workflow.
We already know the cloud formation and TerraForm DevOps workflow.
Let's take a look.
How does this workflow look like with Devsecops?
So always think about what are the components or areas which can be vulnerable to attacks.
So in this case, your templates return in either cloud formation or TerraForm could have a security
vulnerability such as your infrastructure as code might be using too permissive security group.
Maybe you are spinning up a C and you are giving access to everyone.
Maybe you are hard coding the S-H key material, etc. So in your DevOps toolchain from Jenkins you can
scan the template.
So a couple of sample tools are CFM, NAC, Trend Micro Cloud one, conformity NWS, Cloud Formation
Guard, etc. So these tools will scan your template and find out any vulnerability if you are indeed
provisioning an in-situ.
So you have to use the army in your cloud formation or TerraForm template so you can invoke Amazon Inspector
to scan the army to ensure it is conforming to your security standards and all these tools if an Amazon
inspector, etc. can be invoked via shell commands.
So at the end of the day, you can invoke these tools and then you can scan the findings.
And if the findings find something vulnerable, you can halt the pipeline and send a notification to
the user.
And in the monitor phase you can use a config to monitor the resources.
So if anything deviates, you can generate a lot.
There are a bunch of tools here.
You can use narcos to monitor, networking, etc. So let's talk about defense in depth.
So this goes one level deeper.
If you are using ESI to load balancer, you have to think about how are these issues exposed?
So you need to use a private subnet for ESI tools, you need to use NWS, WAF, shield, etc. You need
to ensure you have authentication authorization and note that the tools like KF and NAG comes with some
predefined checks and you can always add additional checks on top.
Now let's go to traditional ESI to workflow.
So in this workflow, your application is running within easy to deploy it via Ansible.
And we went through this pipeline in detail on our DevOps pipeline video.
So check that lecture out.
So here, what are the components that your application could be vulnerable to?
So the first and foremost, the actual application code.
So in the build phase before the code is compiled, you can run static code analysis and you can also
check if you are using a secrets manager with appropriate CMS.
Some of the super popular scanning tools for your code could be sonar, cube, GR audit, etc. Again,
you can invoke all these using shell commands during the testing phase.
You can run penetration testing or DDOS testing and then during the monitor phase, you need to run
dynamic testing and analysis.
So basically some process need to dynamically check in your code in case some packages are vulnerable
or some configuration got changed.
Sample tools for this could be Zap, Astra, Invicta, etc. And if you are running your code on ESI
too, you can use RW config and cloud trail to monitor host configuration, any changes, etc. and create
an alarm in case a deviation occurs.
And for defense in depth, a lot of the stuff stays similar.
Always think how is the application exposed and then add as many layers of defense as you can use private
subnet swap shield or ten or zee, etc..
All right, so let's move on to Kubernetes Gitops DevOps workflow.
So some of the components stays the same.
For example, in the build phase, you still need to do static or analysis on your application code.
But with Kubernetes, the input to the build phase is your code as well as the Docker file.
So you have to ensure that the root user is not running your Docker container.
That's the default.
You always should switch the user from root to an application user, and then there are tools to check
that, such as Dako headland that you can invoke from your DevOps pipeline.
Also with container image, you get your best image, so you always should run the ACR enhanced scan
for code and operating system package.
So ACL enhanced comes into play when you are saving your container image in Amazon Elastic Container
Registry.
But if you are using some third party registry such as Jfrog Docker Hub, you can use open source scanning
tools such as Claire.
And if you are running your containers on EC2 and if you are provisioning the Kubernetes cluster as
well, then you need to scan the Kubernetes worker.
Is it a mine with Amazon Inspector?
And then for testing for critical events, you should run penetration testing and for monitoring.
You should run dynamic scan on running containers.
Some of the tools that help you do that is Prisma, Cloud, Snake, etc. You should run queue bench
periodically for Kubernetes configuration scan.
You should analyze Kubernetes control plan logs.
You should automatically code on node and pods if necessary in case there is a vulnerability.
Again, Kubernetes security is a huge area that could be a separate course on its own.
But since Kubernetes is very popular, some of the other pointers in case you are going for a Kubernetes
security job, always think of Kubernetes security on different components.
So it starts with image security and then the infrastructure security or the host security where your
containers are running.
Then think about running port and runtime security.
Think about network security.
And then finally audit and forensics.
So this is the link in case you are running Kubernetes on Amazon.
In case as you check out this X Security Best Practices Guide.
If you are running Kubernetes in other cloud, they have similar best practices.
So check them out before going for the Kubernetes security interview.
All right.
That's it for this lecture.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture by.